
Stellarim is the story of your quest to find freedom from the oppression of your past. You have stolen a starship and are fleeing through the galaxy. Your enemies are hunting you, but you might be able to get help from some of the alien species in the universe. However, these species might become additional enemies just as easily, depending on how you deal with them. Your goal is to reach Stellarim, a section of the galaxy so far away from civilization that you might just be able to find refuge from those who seek to destroy you. In this galaxy, you must grow as strong as possible without making too many others afraid of you. You must move quickly through the zones while gathering resources and power. You must reach Stellarim alive.

Traits and Attributes:

There are eight traits that describe the status of your ship and yourself. Each trait has a corresponding trait, and each of these pairs is tied to an attribute. Raising one trait lowers the corresponding trait, but raising an attribute raises both of its traits. For example, Trickery and Diplomacy are corresponding traits, and their attribute is Intelligence. So whenever your Trickery skills increase, your Diplomacy skills decrease, and vice versa. However, if you increase your Intelligence, both Trickery and Diplomacy are increased as well. The chart below shows all traits and attributes:

ATTRIBUTES:	[1] POWER	[2] ENGINES	[3] INTELLIGENCE	[4] SANITY

TRAITS:		[1] Lasers	[3] Speed	[5] Trickery		[7] Bravery
		[2] Shields	[4] Navigation	[6] Diplomacy		[8] Trickery

During your journey, you will spend most of your time alone in your ship. You can use this valuable time to train your attributes by pressing the number keys listed by each attribute. Use this time carefully, because before long you will run into other aliens, and the way you spend your training time will affect what happens.

Encounters:

Your interactions with other alien species are defined by events called encounters. There are many different types of encounters, and many different types of aliens you can have these encounters with. During each encounter, you have the option of responding with any of the eight traits. However, only certain traits are effective in a given type of encounter. For example, diplomacy is useless when you are in a fight. Different aliens respond differently to your choice of trait in different encounters. A Scribe is much harder to trick than a Smuggler when you are trying to trade with one of them. Careful planning and thinking are necessary to make encounters go your way.

Different things happen when you succeed or fail an encounter. If you succeed in the encounter, the trait you used to win becomes stronger, and its corresponding trait becomes weaker. Also, your bravery increases slightly, and your caution decreases slightly. The alien you encountered gets more difficult to defeat with the same trait. The aliens of this galaxy learn from their mistakes and grow in knowledge and power quickly. If you fail an encounter, the attribute corresponding to the trait you used falls considerably, your caution increases slightly, and your bravery decreases slightly. Finally, an alien you encounter might become more or less hostile towards you, depending on the type of encounter, the trait you used, and the outcome.

Here is an example encounter: A Scribe is trying to trade with you! You choose to try to trick the Scribe. You succeed, so your trickery increases, your diplomacy decreases, your bravery increases very slightly, your caution decreases very slightly, the Scribe becomes harder to trick in the future, and it becomes less hostile towards you because you made it think it made a good deal. If you had failed the encounter, then your intelligence would greatly decrease, your caution would increase slightly, your bravery would decrease slightly, and the Scribe would become more hostile towards you because it figured out your trick. 

Zones:

The galaxy is divided into five zones. Zone 1, where your journey begins, is the core of civilization, and the citizens of that zone are relatively friendly. Higher numbered zones become less and less civilized, and you will encounter aliens that are more dangerous, harder to deal with, and more wary of tricks in these outer zones. Not only does this cause encounters to become more difficult to win, but also, when you lose an encounter, your attributes decrease an even greater amount. However, in the higher zones, you have more time alone between encounters, so your attributes rise much more significantly. 

It takes a great amount of preparation to travel to a new zone. You must learn about the way to travel there and the challanges you can expect to face. The best way to gain this information is by listening to stories from Scribes and Sky Runners, who know much about these topics. Also, to travel to a new zone, you will need upgraded parts for your ship to handle the rougher areas. To get the upgrades, you must successfully trade with Scribes and Smugglers. Once you have collected enough parts and learned enough information in a zone, you need to test your equipment in a friendly race. If you win, the next zone becomes unlocked.

You can change zones immediately after an encounter.  You should only move up zones when you are confident you will be able to face the challenges ahead. You must enter cryosleep to travel from zone to zone. It's dangerous to come out of cryosleep just after a warp, so the ship's computer only wakes you up when it senses an outside presence. Therefore, you immediately enter an encounter when you reach a new zone. When you reach Stellarim, Zone 5, you must survive there for a while to become comfortable in your new home. When you win enough encounters in Stellarim, you win the game.
