Traits:				Attributes:		Encounters:
0: Hostility (Alien)
0: Nothing (Player)					0: Fight
1: Lasers			0: Power		1: Threaten
2: Shields						2: Rob
3: Trickery			1: Intelligence		3: Story
4: Diplomacy						4: Trade
5: Speed			2: Engines		5: Race
6: Navigation			
7: Bravery			3: Sanity
8: Caution

Aliens:			Unlock Zone:
StarRunners		1
Scribes			1
Smugglers		2
Dragon			2
Golem			3
//Mercenary		varies
//make locked characters increase stats faster because they don't increase stats
//when they lose

Zones: Difficulty and reward DOUBLES each zone.
myZone (internal Zones): 0-2.
displayed Zones: 1-3
Unlock with 2 trades and 2 stories, THEN win a race with navigation.
Currently Zones 1-3 ONLY.
Player starts with:
       0 in trait 0 (dummy value)
       6 in each attribute, each trait is +/- 3.
Aliens start with:
       3 Hostility
       Total of 50 traits, distributed based on lore (dragons are strong and
       fast, golems are strong and stupid, etc.)
Player's upgradeAtt() and updateStats() are affected. So you gain more during
	the upgrade phase and lose more if you fail an encounter.
You gain a base stat of 10-15 points in upgradeAtt() in 3-5 stages.
	-can be split across multiple attributes
You lose a base stat of 13-16 points in updateStats() if you fail an encounter.
	-the attribute corresponding to the trait you chose.
You gain + 2^zone in the trait you chose and -2^zone in the corresponding trait
	if you win
Encounter's challenge: Alien trait is multiplied by 2^zone without actually
	changing the alien's stored trait.
Alien incrTrait(): Aliens get 6-10 traits (like 3-5 player attributes).
	-about a third how fast the player naturally progresses.
Alien updateStats(): Aliens get +5 if they lose a regular encounter, +10 if they lose a fight.
	-forces you to switch your tactics, try out trickery every few times.
	-consider a max. 4 * (10-15)?
Hostility:
	Aliens start with 1-5 hostility.
	If hostility is greater than 5, there is a hostility * 10%
	chance the aliens will fight you. (For example, hostility 6 * 10 = 60%)

To make a new alien:
1. Copy and rename Dragon.cpp and Dragon.h
2. Replace dragon in each with new alien name (Don't forget ifndef)
3. Change starting traits. Sum = 50. Remember higher number means stronger against the trait. So golem has high laser because it is tough to kill, and low trickery because it is easy to trick.
4. Change encounters in constructor (value of array spot and comment)
5. Include .h and instantiate class in main
6. Increase random number, add case with pointer
7. Add to objects list in makefile


TO-DO:

Also, later aliens may be too weak (dragon hasn't increased as much by the time
we unlock it)
Disallow laser/speed winds counting for unlocking next zone
Add detailed encounter option text
Save game

Health
	High shields reduces damage
	Navigation increases rate of zone change
Money
Alliances
Alien-Alien Encounters, hostility levels
Random events: Meteor, computer malfunction, sickness
Multiplayer

Mercenaries:
	Appear in a zone after 10-20 encounters there
	Rarer than other races
	Can only have fight encounters
	Winning encounter against them: they leave for several encounters

Final Boss:
	Evil alien that was sending mercenaries after you (past employer?)
	4-5 encounters in a row of different types
	Trait chosen determines next type of encounter (story)
	Ex: Fight encounter. You win with speed. Now that you are away from them, enter Prep encounter: Can use caution to lay traps, shields to charge shields, trickery to hide, etc. Then you get a bonus in the fight encounter that comes after, or something like that.



Proposal: Logbook.
Jacob: I looked at this again, and I still think it could work in the future,
but for now I agree the better option is rollover text or something that
describes what each trait will do. like in a fight, bravery is "Fearlessly
stare down the laser bolts as they stream towards your ship"

You have an entry for each encounter. A rob would say something like
"You get invaded by tiny craft built to duck through shields. As usual, blasting
the mothership away will force them to retreat. Also, speeding away should work,
provided your engines are good enough. However, there's no time to cleverly
navigate away. You can't bargain with or trick them once they've boarded, and
they will laugh in your face no matter how bold you appear. You can cautiously 
lay traps for the invaders to discourage them and send them back."

In the future, we could even have it so you unlock the logbook a little bit at a
time. Like if you lose with trick or diplomacy that line is unlocked. Also maybe
if you hear a story, a random line in the logbook is unlocked. Stuff like that.
